What is the biggest risk to your future?	The biggest risk to your future isn't your competition. It's the distractions you insist on keeping in your life rather than doing the things you know you should be doing.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What happens when you don't pay attention?	Life is happening and you're not even noticing. Life is happening and you're not even there.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why do distractions become more dangerous as you grow?	The more successful you get, the more distractions become attractive. Like the woman in the red dress in the Matrix — you can't help but look. She turns out to be Agent Smith with a gun to your head.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is the biggest distraction in business?	Shiny object syndrome. New opportunities that take you off mission. The best deals are the ones you say no to. Focus is more valuable than opportunity.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why do people delay doing things they don't like?	People delay doing things they don't like for longer than it takes to actually do them. The delay takes more time than the task itself.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What happens when you put things off repeatedly?	When you put something off, it makes putting it off more likely next time. Manana, manana, manana. The same thing works in reverse.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How much time does the delay actually take?	There have been so many times in my life where I knew I needed to do something and filled all this extra time not doing that thing. The moment I did it, I was like — that took way less time than it took me to delay getting to this point.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is pulling the thread?	Pulling the thread means starting. When you start, what feels really unknown becomes very tangible. You understand the six problems you have to solve, and then you can wrap your arms around it and take it one bite at a time.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What positive cycle happens when you start?	You get a positive reinforcement cycle that occurs every time you start. You just need to start pulling the thread, and all of a sudden what feels unknown becomes tangible.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How does Alex define personal power?	Power is the distance between thoughts and reality. An omnipotent being has zero space between thinking something and it being done. Shrinking that gap is personal power.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How do you shrink the gap between thought and action?	Shrink the time between when you wake up and when you start working. Shrink the time between one task and the next. You don't need 30 minutes of getting ready to start working — you can just start working.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What happens to your best brain power during preparation?	All the time you spend getting ready to work, you're using up your best brain power on things that truly don't move the needle at all.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is the productivity rain dance?	The productivity rain dance is the weird sacred ritual you do before working. The blank page makes weird tasks alluring. You end up washing dishes you never use.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What's the difference between preparation and routine?	Preparation is a stage of work directly related to what you're going to do. Routine is standing on one foot doing cold plunges that have nothing to do with your work.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why does over-reliance on routines make you fragile?	There are things you can do that make productivity more likely, but over-reliance on them makes for a very fragile, unrobust way to get into working.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What happens when you focus on inputs instead of outcomes?	If you optimize for inputs, you end up asking what did I actually get done at the end of the day, and the answer is nothing. If you optimize for outcomes, the inputs get optimized automatically.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How does the person doing the rain dance end the day?	Everyone's had a blank piece of paper in front of them and ended up washing dishes they never use. The weirdest tasks become alluring because of procrastination.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is the Rule of 100?	Do something 100 times to get good at it. You make 100 minutes of content, you do 100 outreach attempts, you spend $100 a day on ads. For most people it takes about 4 hours a day. It's pure inputs that create outputs.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is the Rule of 100 on steroids?	Open to goal. You work open until you hit your goal. Sometimes that means you hit your goal by noon and can cut out. Other times it means you go from 5 AM to midnight because that's how long it took.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How do high achievers think about practice?	I'll keep shooting free throws until I hit 100. I'll practice my presentation until I do zero mess-ups. You figure out what input most closely tracks with the output you want, and then you jam that button as hard as you possibly can.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why do people freeze when given an outcome goal?	If I said go get me 10 customers, you freeze because it's like — what do I do? People's behavior skews all over the place, scattered, shotgun sprays. Then they figure out one thing that works and jam that button as hard as they can.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How does Alex define work?	I define work by output. Output is volume times leverage — how many times you do the thing, times how much you get each time. You do as many reps as you possibly can with the most leverage possible.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why is there no shortcut to skill?	If you make 100 calls, the leverage is how skilled you are. You might get 10 times more than someone less skilled. But the only way you get skilled is by doing more inputs — by working more. It's a virtuous cycle of doing more and getting better.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Where is the magic you're looking for?	The magic you're looking for is in the work you're avoiding. Every single time, the highest pain task that's in front of you that you've put off the most — it's always that one.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why don't you need new productivity insights?	All the big insights from productivity and personal development are the lowest hanging fruit. They're repeated across the most books because they're the most reliable, scalable, and robust. You need to be reminded more than you need to be taught.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Do feelings require action?	No. Feelings are data, not directives. Just because you don't feel like doing something doesn't mean you shouldn't do it. Action creates feelings, not the reverse.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What happens when you give into feelings of tiredness?	The more times I give into that excuse or that feeling, the more superstitious I become about doing it in the future.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What did Alex discover about feeling bad during work?	I can look at content from sessions where I felt terrible and can't see any difference. The more times you get that loop going, the more you can separate how you feel from what is required.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is the anterior mid cingulate cortex?	It's an area of the brain that tracks when you do something you don't want to do. You strengthen the connections by doing things you don't want to do — especially when you really don't want to do them. You're hypertrophying the muscle of willpower.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is the ultimate version of resilience?	The ultimate version is when you don't even consider how you feel. It's just not a thought. You just do it. You move from conscious, effortful action to it's just a reaction. You get up and you start to write.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Do bad things come in threes?	Bad things don't come in threes. Bad things happen. People don't know how to cope and they allow one bad thing to snowball into more bad stuff. The only thing worse is letting one bad thing ruin many good things.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How do you prevent one bad thing from snowballing?	Ask: what can I do to decrease the likelihood something else bad occurs? Boil everything down to the actions you have to take. The person who is indestructible has something terrible happen and nothing changes — or they get better.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How do successful people see failure differently?	Successful people see opportunity in every failure. Normal people see failure in every opportunity. Both are right. Only one gets rich.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Is pain a problem or a signal?	Pain is a signal that you are alive. Growing in business is painful. Stagnating is painful. Declining is painful. If pain is a prerequisite for reality, then it's just a signal that we are breathing, and it becomes irrelevant.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What's the relationship between feeling bad and performance?	Feeling bad has zero correlation to your performance in the gym. The pain of working out has no correlation to how you perform. If it has no correlation, then it's almost irrelevant and you can just keep living your life.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How should you judge pain?	I relatively reject the judgment of pain as good or bad. Pain is just pain. It's a signal. The question is what you do with it.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What did Rory Sutherland say about things?	Things are not what they are. Things are what we think they are. If you're doing a hard workout — panting, heart rate at 180, sweating — it's oddly enjoyable. If the exact same sensation happened in your car in traffic, you'd call an ambulance.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What's the difference between staring out the window smoking vs. not smoking?	If you stare out the window without a cigarette, you're an antisocial, friendless idiot. If you stare out with a cigarette, you're a philosopher. Framing is everything.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is the power of reframing?	It's significantly easier to find a way to reframe your experiences as enjoyable while you improve them, rather than waiting for them to be done before you give yourself license to be happy.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How should you interpret anxiety before a performance?	Champions interpret anxiety as excitement. If you're excited to go up, you're amped versus stressed. But it feels the same. The way you frame it totally changes how you feel.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What does anxiety before releasing something mean?	If you feel nervous before you present, you probably didn't work on it enough. To not be anxious, you have to do it so many times that by the last time you're bored of it. When you're sick of it is when you'll have no adrenal response.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How did Alex's nerves change over a 28-day tour?	I did 17 shows in 28 days, three continents. Even though I'd done the prep and told myself I'm not nervous I'm excited, it still degraded over time until at the end I was so dialed and routinized I was bored while doing it.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What happens when a comedian does a 300-day tour?	A friend did a 300-day tour of the same show. He said I no longer felt like a comedian — I was a performer. He was so dialed and routinized that he was bored while doing it.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is confidence really?	The word confidence is about the interval level of proof you have. How do you become confident? Do it enough times that you feel like it is unlikely that what you think should happen won't happen. Your model of the world is accurate.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How did Alex build confidence with girls?	You start and one out of 10 times it goes well. Then two out of 10. Then four. Then eight. And all of a sudden you're confident because you have a high degree of predictive accuracy.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What does it mean to have integrity?	Decrease the friction between what you really think and what you say. If you start by not lying to yourself and then say those things, you start not lying to other people. It creates a virtuous cycle that orients your behavior.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How do you operationalize authenticity?	How would you behave if there was no possibility of punishment? That behavior is who you are authentically. Our degrees of freedom are predicated on how much we act as though we could not be punished.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why is being honest jarring to people?	People have a hard time just saying no to things. Try actually telling the truth when you don't want to do something. We have so many social niceties — oh I'm really busy, bad time — when the truth is just: no, I don't want to go.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Are there social obligations?	There are no such things as social obligations — only consequences. You have no social obligations, you have social consequences. You don't have to go. If I don't go, what are the consequences? That's the question.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What did Alex say to someone who wanted his time?	I showed him my calendar — I had nothing on it — and I still said I'm not going to give you any of my time. The calendar was empty and I still said no. That's the ultimate flex: choosing yourself even when there's no excuse.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is real revenge?	Real revenge is thinking about what the version of you who got you here did, and then acting in the exact opposite of that as many times as you possibly can. The pain you feel by rejecting the thing that got you into the bad circumstance — that's the real revenge.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Who should you punish for your bad situation?	The real person who got you here is you. Other people may have done things, you may have been dealt a bad hand — it doesn't matter. The only thing you control is your actions. The revenge is acting opposite to your old self.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What's wrong with the self-acceptance movement?	People feel icky about the self-acceptance movement because they know people are accepting a version of themselves that is falling short from what it could be. They're not accepting their true self — they're accepting a diminished version.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Should you accept a version of yourself you're not proud of?	Do you want to accept a version of you that you're not proud of? One that doesn't live up to their word? One whose thoughts, actions and intentions aren't aligned? The higher version of you — the potential version — that's what you should be living up to.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How do you adapt these ideas for more emotional people?	A lot of discontent comes from the judgment people have about what they should or should not do along the way. They take my description as prescription for what they should do. I'm describing my life, not prescribing yours.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How do you deal with different psychological makeups?	In France they've got the right to disconnect — you can shut your work laptop at 5pm. For certain psychological makeups, the person with a 9-to-5 job is more free than the entrepreneur who can never stop thinking about work.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What's the hidden cost of working for yourself?	There are certain things you have to do to get to the point where you don't have to do things you don't want to do. When you're liberated, there's a whole new challenge: a completely blank map where you have to actually define what you want.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why did the 'work harder than ever' job post get backlash?	I posted: I want people who want to work harder than they ever have on the most difficult problems in the world. People said it was regressive, like sending kids up chimneys. But there are people for whom that is the job advert of their dreams.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Where does confidence come from?	Confidence comes from evidence that your model of the world is accurate. The positive reinforcement comes from being the goal yourself. The actions you take every day reinforce who you believe yourself to be.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What matters more for success — intensity or consistency?	In the short term, your success depends on your intensity. In the long term, your success depends on your consistency. Do not sacrifice the latter for the former.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How do you keep going without positive reinforcement?	Being able to continue doing something without seeing the results of your work is one of the best competitive advantages — because everybody else is feeling the same discomfort. Everyone's thinking: why is no one telling me I'm doing a good job?	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How did Alex build his podcast audience from zero?	I messaged every single one of the 1,000 contacts in my phone on WhatsApp — 50-person broadcast lists. I was the most ground floor door-to-door sales to try and accumulate an audience.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Once you achieve your goals, are you happier?	When I was poor I was pretty happy. Now that I am rich — in quotes — it's about the same. Good things aren't as good as you think they are. Bad things aren't as bad as you think they are.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What happens to happiness after 3-6 months of any life change?	There's a level of well-being that you restabilize at after 3 to 6 months. Whatever is about to happen is probably not as bad as the worst case scenario — which is nothing.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why do we take things for granted?	We take for granted things that only in recent memory we would have begged to have. The new car you researched for 18 months — you just curbed the tires and go 'whatever.' The house, the marriage, the holiday — all that buildup and then you're flippant about it.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What is the goal of working hard?	Hard work is the goal — not work hard so that X. If the goal is to work as hard as you possibly can, the only real output is who you become along the way. I can win or measure myself against it every day in real time.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why is the work itself the goal?	Whatever you get, you'll become accustomed to. The opposite of the hedonic treadmill is that your ability to work hard itself is growable. I work harder now than I did when I was poor because I've learned to enjoy it.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Who is the only judge of your success?	The only person who can judge you on your success is you, because you're the only one who knows how much was left in the tank. The better you get, the more you win exteriorly — and that's when people feel empty, because they didn't work as hard as they could have.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What's the difference between private and public you?	We don't rise to the standards we have when others are watching — we fall to the standards we have when no one is watching. The only work that really matters is the work no one sees. It shows who you really are.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How did David Goggins express this?	David Goggins said 'I'm David Goggins' b****' — and you want to be able to say that in the mirror and not laugh at yourself. The only way is to know that when no one's watching, you work harder than when they're watching.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What's the virtuous version of public vs. private self?	If the public version of you is the best version of you, then private you has to live up to that — and you get a self-reinforcing cycle. That's authenticity. What you think, what you say, and what you do are aligned.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why is having nothing to lose the ultimate advantage?	When you have nothing to lose, you have the perfect conditions for taking risk. The worst case is baseline — where you're currently at. Wildly underestimate how many shots on goal you can take when you have nothing to lose.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
When should you be most aggressive in taking risk?	When someone has something to lose, they have to be more selective about shots. When you have nothing, you can take unlimited shots. Going to the casino but you can keep playing until you win — those are the conditions you have.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What's a better measure of wealth than your bank account?	Your calendar is a better measure of your wealth than your bank account. It's also the easiest way to know where someone's going to be in five years — just see where they're investing their time.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why do people misjudge their current situation?	People see their current condition as a result of the behavior they're doing today — it's not. The life you're living today is the result of work you did 6 and 12 months ago. They want immediate reward and don't see the delayed cause.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why does Alex hate being around negative people?	Being an ass is a weak person's idea of strength. Complaining is their connection. Never let yourself be held back by other people's negativity.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
How do you deal with uncertainty?	The path of personal development is befriending uncertainty. Almost all decisions you make in the beginning have incomplete data — you have to make decisions anyway. Grow comfortable with taking your best bad guess.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
Why is waiting for certainty a trap?	A perfect answer assumes perfect information, which you can only have after you begin. Making a decision is the way you get the information. Be directionally correct rather than searching for a perfect answer.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
What happens if you walk 5 minutes a day?	If you walk for 5 minutes a day, you're going to get 50% of the health benefits — probably more than that. Add 10 years to your life if you walk 5 to 10 minutes a day. The dose-response curve is incredible at the low end.	Alex Hormozi - 24 Harsh Truths About Distraction	
